---
layout: league
title: Monday Matchplay 2016
active: true
---


## Information
 
Events will be held at multiple locations throughout the city during the course of the year as players work their way towards not only victory at each particular tournament, but to the final event of the year:
The MMM Series Championship!

* Play agianst players of similar skill / ranking.
* Games are chosen by players. (Not random)
* Prizes / cash payounts at every event.
* BIG prizes at the Series Championships from collections through the season and from our host locations and sponsors.
* FREE PLAY for all tournament games.



##Overview:

* This Format will be used for the 2016 MMM Tournament Series.

* Slight changes may occur, and will be noted in upcoming rule revisions.
* As the number of participants increase at each event, adjustments may need to be made to ensure that we can meet time constraints.

The basic idea behind this format is to have players compete against others of similar skill to their own, while at the same time, creating more accurate standings based on each and every game a person plays.

This will keep the standings tighter, and should prove to be a far more fun and exciting Tournament each and every time.

It will also slightly ‘handicap’ better players, while giving little advantages to less skilled players WITHOUT removing the true nature of any real pinball Tournament… you still must play better than another person to win!

If a person does well in a Tournament, they will play against better players next time… if they do poorly, they will play in a lower skill group.

Ultimately, this will accommodate all players of all skills, and yet challenge those players that are TRULY competitive as well!

* PLEASE NOTE: - The use of Bangbacks, Deathsaves, or Slidesaves during MMM competitive play is strictly prohibited!
Any attempt to do either of these will result in a disqualification form the game being played and the player will receive last place. A second infraction during that night’s play will result in disqualification from that night’s event.

----------------------------


##Dates and Locations:

There are 8 dates for events that lead up to the Series Championship. These are all held at various locations maintained by Pinball Vancouver. Upcoming location will be announced as the season progresses...

1. Feb. 22nd - Library Square
1. Mar. 21st
1. Apr. 25th
1. May. 30th
1. Jun. 26th **MMM SUNDAY Summer Special**
1. Aug. 29th
1. Sep. 26th
1. Oct. 24th
1. Nov. 19th SATURDAY **MMM Series Championship**

##Tournament Start Time and Registration

Sign-up starts approximately 6pm and players musybe registered by 6:30 pm (unless otherwise announced prior to the event day) to ensure we start as promptly as possible...
With this format, late-comers who did not sign up on time CAN NOT play in the Tournament. **BE ON TIME OR EARLY!**

* At very least, call someone who is at the Tournament to let them know that you are running late, but would like to play in the Tournament. You can still be placed in a group, but once the Tournament has started, players in your group will PLUNGE YOUR BALL whenever it is your turn until you arrive. In the case where it is your turn to choose a machine, they will skip over your choice and continue to play ahead. Once you arrive you can start playing your turns, even mid-game. At the conclusion of whatever game is being played upon your arrival, YOUR MACHINE CHOICE will be played next in the case it was skipped over in your absence.

* Special start times will be announced for the "SUNDAY Summer Special" and "MMM Series Championships"


##Entry Fees:

* Entry fees are TIERED based on each players IFPA World Pinball Ranking.... 
  * standard entry fee = $5, but:
  * If you are ranked within the Top 1000 in the world, Entry is $10.
  * If you are ranked in the Top 100 in the world, Entry is $20.

* 20% of entry fees go towards the MMM Series Championship Prize Pool (final event of the year!) 
* The remainder of the money goes towards that night's winners 

* all games are FREE PLAY for every tournament.

##Tournament Groups:

Once all players have signed up for the evening’s competition, a list of all players will be made based on a player’s TRN (Tournament Ranking Number)

* TRN – is the average points a player has earned in the last 5 'MMM' Tournaments they have played in. Obviously, if a player has played LESS than 5 Tournaments it is the average points of all the Tournaments they have played in so far. **

ALSO: For the first Tournament that any person plays in for 2016, they will be RANKED according to their World Pinball Rankings at the time of that Tournament. If the player is unranked, they will start at the bottom of the list.

Each available player will be put into groups of either 3 or 4 people. This is solely based on the number of entrants. Groups of 4 will ALWAYS be made if possible, but in the case of numbers indivisible by 4, the required 3-person groups will be made as to include all players in the Tournament. As an example:

Let’s say that the names in BOLD on the list below are playing in that day's Tournament, (and the others listed played in previous 'MMM' tournaments, are ranked within the standings, but did not attend this event) and this list is in order of each player’s TRN:

* **EDEN**
* **SHAWN**
* **ROBERT**
* **MARY**
* Jody 
* Angelo
* **SANDRINE**
* **BLAKE**
* **BRENNAN**
* **SARA**
* **SCOTT**
* Bonnie
* **LINDSAY**
* Alyson
* **JORDAN**

We have 11 players participating, which would equal 2 groups of 4 people and 1 group of 3 people.
ANY groups of 3 are made out of the HIGHEST RANKED players first!
This would mean the groups in this example would be:

* Group 1 – Eden, Shawn, Robert
* Group 2 – Mary, Sandrine, Blake, Brennan
* Group 3 – Sara, Scott, Lindsay, Jordan

(players NOT BOLD in the example list are skipped over, as they aren't in attendance, and players compete in groups with players that are as close to their own rankings as possible.)


##Tournament Score Sheets:

Each group will be given a score sheet with each participating player color-coded.
Fill each player’s names in the appropriate spaces, and choose someone within the group to be the scorekeeper.

It is IMPORTANT to choose someone in the group with LEGIBLE PRINTING to be your scorekeeper to prevent as many scoring and clerical errors as possible!

##Choosing Machines For Your Group:

* Each player in the group will take turns picking a machine to play on.
* The LOWEST RANKED player in the group will choose the first game to play on AND BE LAST PLAYER!
* If you follow the color coding on the Score Sheet, the person who is LAST PLAYER of any game is the one who picks the machine.
* In a 3-player group, the 4th machine is chosen as follows:
  * The player in the group with the LEAST TOTAL POINTS after the 1st 3 games are played, gets choice of game OR position for game 4...
  * The player with the next-highest total chooses position next (or game if still available), and the player with the highest points gets the remaining option left. In the event of any player(s) with the same total points going into game 4, the player with the LOWEST TRN of the group will have 1st choice, and so on.
* No machine may be picked more than ONCE in any Round of play, and if the current game choice is already being played by another group, the next person should pick their game and the group should start play on it immediately. 
* Once a game choice is made by a player, regardless of the order the games are played in, they may NOT change that choice once the next player has chosen their game to play… the only person who has an option to change their game choice is the person who picks GAME 4 since it will have no bearing on what the choices of the other players can be. So yes, it is possible to strategically choose a game that is currently occupied to try and get your opponents to play one of their choices first… and yes, it is possible for an entire group to choose all 4 games, and if each one is currently occupied, then the group MUST play the first game that becomes open!
* So, the 1st person in the group picks a game... and if it's occupied, then next player picks their game, and once it's picked, the previous game chosen by the previous player can NOT be changed.
It becomes Locked In.
That being said, it is possible to keep picking games that are all occupied, and you play whichever one becomes available first, regardless of the order they were picked.

* It is possible that the 2nd, 3rd, or 4th game picked MAY be the first one your group plays if that happens to be the one that is open when chosen, or is available first.

* In the event that your group has multiple machines become available at the same time, the procedure is to play the one that was picked EARLIEST whenever possible.

* NO WAITING, even if a group is on ball 3… if they are writing down their scores, then it is fine to wait.

* In the event that multiple groups are waiting for the same machine, then the procedure is:
  * The group with more games left to play goes 1st.
  * If same, then the group that has the game picked EARLIER goes 1st (as in one group picked it 2nd, the other picked it 3rd)
  * If same, then the group who COULD play a different game (while the other group can NOT) must play a different game.
  * If same, then the higher seeded group plays first.

##Scoring Each Game of the Qualifying Round:

Each group will play 4-player games on the machines chosen in the order indicated by the color-coding on the Score Sheets.
When a game is done, the scores of each player will be recorded accurately, and points will be awarded based on how the scores attained RANK against each other:

* 1st place = 7 pts.
* 2nd place = 5 pts.
* 3rd place = 3 pts.
* 4th place = 1 pt.

For groups with 3 PLAYERS, the points awarded based on RANK are:

* 1st place = 7 pts.
* 2nd place = 4 pts.
* 3rd place = 1 pt.

These scores are then transferred to the appropriate score boxes at the top of the Score Sheet.

Once all 4 games have been played, add up all the players’ scores to find out the total points earned for the Qualifying Round.

The most points a player can get is 28 points, and the least is 4 points.

* If 15 players or less are participating in the event, the TOP 4 players with the highest points in the Qualifying Round will skip ahead to the FINALS.
I* f 31 players or less are participating in the event, the TOP 8 players with the highest points in the Qualifying Round will skip ahead to the Tournament Semi – Finals.
* If there are more than 31 players are participating in the event, the TOP 16 players with the highest points in the Qualifying Round will move on to the Tournament Quarter – Finals.

* Any Tiebreakers will be played on a machine chosen by the LOWEST RANKED player of the Tiebreaker group

The player with the LOWEST TRN at the start of the Tournament will have 1st choice of machine or position, then the next lowest ranked player will choose position (or the machine if the previous player did not pick it) and so on until all positions for the Tiebreaker are filled.
No points are awarded during Tiebreakers.

##Scoring Games in the Quarter-Final Round:

* The Quarter-Finals are made up of 4 player groups only.
* The players that advanced from the Qualifying Round will be ranked in the SAME ORDER AS THEY STARTED THE TOURNAMENT.

The groups are:

* Group A – 1, 2, 3, 4
* Group B – 5, 6, 7, 8
* Group C – 9, 10, 11, 12
* Group D – 13, 14, 15, 16

These numbers above are the relative ranks of the players that have moved on to this round from the Qualifying Round.

* Machines will be picked again in the same way as the Qualifying Round, with NO MACHINE REPEATED. When the game is done on each machine, scores will be recorded accurately.

Points will be awarded based on RANK as follows:

* 1st = 4 pts.
* 2nd = 2 pts.
* 3rd = 1 pt.
* 4th = 0 pts.

The most points a player can get in this round is 12, and the least is 0.
The TOP 2 PLAYERS IN EACH GROUP will advance to the Semi-Final Round.
Any ties will be played off to decide who will advance…

* Any Tiebreakers will be played on a machine chosen by the LOWEST RANKED player of the Tiebreaker group 

The player with the LOWEST TRN at the start of the Tournament will have 1st choice of machine or position, then the next lowest ranked player will choose position (or the machine if the previous player did not pick it) and so on until all positions for the Tiebreaker are filled.

* No points are awarded during Tiebreakers.

##Scoring Games in the Semi-Final Round:

* The Semi-Finals are made up of 4 player groups only.
* The players that advanced from the Quarter-Final Round (or straight from the Qualifying Round) will be ranked in the SAME ORDER AS THEY STARTED THE TOURNAMENT.

The groups are:

* Group A – 1, 2, 3, 4
* Group B – 5, 6, 7, 8

These numbers above are the relative ranks of the players that have moved on to this round from the LAST round of play.

* Machines will be picked again in the same way as the Qualifying Round, with NO MACHINE REPEATED. When the game is done on each machine, scores will be recorded accurately.

Points will be awarded based on RANK as follows:

* 1st = 4 pts.
* 2nd = 2 pts.
* 3rd = 1 pt.
* 4th = 0 pts.

The most points a player can get in this round is 12, and the least is 0.
The TOP 2 PLAYERS IN EACH GROUP will advance to the FINAL ROUND.

*  Any Tiebreakers will be played on a machine chosen by the LOWEST RANKED player of the Tiebreaker group

The player with the LOWEST TRN at the start of the Tournament will have 1st choice of machine or position, then the next lowest ranked player will choose position (or the machine if the previous player did not pick it) and so on until all positions for the Tiebreaker are filled.

* No points are awarded during Tiebreakers.

##Scoring Games in the Final Round:

The FINAL ROUND is played EXACTLY like the SEMI-FINAL ROUND, and the scoring for each game will be:

* 1st = 4 pts.
* 2nd = 2 pts.
* 3rd = 1 pt.
* 4th = 0 pts.

The remaining players are put into a group in the SAME ORDER AS THEY STARTED THE TOURNAMENT.

* Any Tiebreakers will be played on a machine chosen by the LOWEST RANKED player of the Tiebreaker group

* The player with the LOWEST TRN at the start of the Tournament will have 1st choice of machine or position, then the next lowest ranked player will choose position (or the machine if the previous player did not pick it) and so on until all positions for the Tiebreaker are filled.
* No points are awarded during Tiebreakers.


The person who gets the highest point total in this round is...

The TOURNAMENT CHAMPION !

##Prizes:

The TOP 4 finishers in the FINAL ROUND will share in the event prize pool:

* 1st place = **50%**
* 2nd place = **25%**
* 3rd place = **15%**
* 4th place = **10%**

##Series Points:

The points that each player earns through all Rounds of the Tournament will be added to their Standings Total.
The points are added as:

Qualification Points + Quarter-Final Points + Semi-Final Points + Final Points + BONUS Points

BONUS Points are awarded to the TOP 4 finishers as follows:

1st place = 7 pts.
2nd place = 4 pts.
3rd place = 2 pts.
4th place = 1 pt.

##MMM Series Championship:

The last event of the year will be the MMM SERIES CHAMPIONSHIP!

Anyone who has played in any of the tournaments, AND ANY NEWCOMERS may participate in the Series Championship.

* A player’s ranking in the end of season standings will be their seeding for the event. 
* Any new players will be ranked as bottom / low seeds and will be ranked against OTHER NEWCOMERS at the finals by their REVERSE World Pinball Player Rankings. 
* Unranked players will be ranked ABOVE all ranked players, but below players seeded from their end of season standings.
* Each player keeps their seeding for the entire Final Event.

In the event of a tie for seeding in the Series Championship, a tie-breaking system is used to determine each player's seeding.
Higher seed is determined by:

1. Most Series-Event Victories in 2016. If equal, then...
1. Most points in one single Tournament. If equal, then...
1. 2nd Most points in one single Tournament (3rd most, 4th most, etc)

If at that point the players are in a TRUE TIE, a single play-off game will occur, with choice of game or position determined by coin flip.

The Top 15 players will all automatically be seeded in a Finals Ladder, while all other players NOT in the Top 15 will play off in the inital rounds fore the Wildcard Spot (16th seed!)

* With this format, you can't finish any worse than 3 spots LOWER than your seeding going INTO the Series Championship

More details to come soon! Stay tuned.

## Current Standings

No results yet!

