---
layout: post
title: Whopper Wednesdays 2015 Wrapup
permalink: www2015
---


## Whopper Wednesdays is over for the 2015 season! 

It's been quite a ride. 
For the weekly results, and all other details, see the [League Page]({{ site.url }}/../leagues/whopper_wednesdays_2015/).

The top 16 results: 

| # | Player
| ------- | ------- 
| 1  | **Robert Gagno** 
| 2  | **Sara Little** 
| 3  | **Mary Mac** 
| 4  | **Chad Bruhaug** 
| 5  | **Eden Stamm**
| 6  | **Brennan Lloyd**
| 7  | **Sean Lind** 
| 8  | **Garret Wolf**
| 9  | **Shawn Haley**
| 10 | **Blake Hurdle**
| 11 | **Larry Ng**
| 12 | **Jon Grieman**
| 13 | **Kirk Jong**
| 14 | **Lindsay Partin**
| 15 | **Al Smith**
| 16 | **Ian Lang**

(7&8 and 9-16 ties broken by qualifying score)

A big thanks to all who came out for this season, and making it what it was.

Thanks to Angelo and Eden for keeping us in well playing machines. 

And thanks to Library Square and the staff for hosting us!

Wednesdays at Library may continue to have some sort of pinball promotion for the summer - but I haven't been given details ;-)

## What Comes Next

We will return! 

Our next season will kickoff for the fall in early September. The format will be similar to what was used for Replay last fall - 3 or 4 player games, and a fixed number of games a night. We've confirmed that we still have support from Damon and Donnelly group to sponsor and provide a home for the league. 

A number of changes are in the works - watch this space for more details as we get closer. [Quest for the GC](https://www.facebook.com/groups/pinballvancouver/) remains a good facebook group to keep abreast of what's going on in the community. 

If you're interested in getting involved with organizing and helping out with running nights, please drop me a line - jon@lytfyre.net.

I appreciate any and all feedback about the format from this season, positive and negative. my email is jon@lytfyre.net.

## Some quick stats about this season: 

 - 17 regular nights, plus the finals. 
 - 130 different players. 
 - Across that 130, 664 entries were recorded
 - Only 4 players played in all 17 qualifying weeks -
   - Brennan Lloyd (3) 
   - Jon Grieman (11)
   - Garret Wolf (13)
   - Jess Haley (17)
 - In total, first places for all 17 qualifying weeks was worth 218.99 WPPR points 
   - currently enough to put a player into the top 225 in the world. 
- Players who won a week: 
  - Eden Stamm (6 weeks)
  - Robert Gagno (3 weeks + finals)
  - Brennan Lloyd (2 weeks)
  - Shawn Haley (1 week)
  - Sara Little (1 week) 
  - Sean Lind (1 week)
  - Brad Kerr (1 week)
  - Jordan Hudson (1 week)
  - Stephen Hardie (1 week)

 - An immense quantity of wings and beer where consumed. 
   - Fortunately, exact records weren't kept for that one. 

To end on an inspiring quote:

<p class="message">
  <em><b>PLAY BETTER!</b></em> - <i>Steve Ritchie</i>
</p>

